README.md, before:

Nagios/Icinga Plugin: check\_domain
===================================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/glensc/monitoring-plugin-check_domain.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/glensc/monitoring-plugin-check_domain)

Nagios/Icinga plugin for checking a domain name expiration date

### Usage

```
$ ./check_domain.sh -d github.io
OK - Domain github.io will expire in 43 days (2014-03-08).
```

### Caching

This tool excels at monitoring a small number of domains, but because of whois rate limiting, it becomes infeasible to use for a large number of domains. For this to work around, there's support for caching positive lookups for defined time period. A failed lookup will cause the domain cache file to be removed so it should be as responsive as a normal check when the critical/warning threshold is reached.

An example to configure to cache positive lookups for one day:
  * `--cache-dir /var/cache/check_domain --cache-age 1`

The cache dir must exist and must be writable for user running the checks.

## Pull requests

1. Fork it.
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b fixing-blah`).
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Fixed blah'`).
4. Run `./test.sh domain.tld` to test the domain
5. Add the example domain name to [domains](domains) for CI to test them, commit it
6. Push to the branch (`git push origin fixing-blah`).
7. Create a new pull request.

Do not update changelog or attempt to change version.


## Installing whois

This plugin uses the "whois" command. It is usually installed by default, but if not, you can get it via your favourite package manager.

Debian/Ubuntu: 
```
# apt-get install whois
```

RHEL/CentOS:
```
# yum install whois
```


## Directory Listings

  * [Nagios Exchange](http://exchange.nagios.org/directory/Plugins/Internet-Domains-and-WHOIS/check_domain/details)

Commit message:

Cache exipry is now calculated per minute rather than per day. Caching turned on by default. Cache isn't deleted during WARN or CRIT states.

README.md, after:

Nagios/Icinga Plugin: check\_domain
===================================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/glensc/monitoring-plugin-check_domain.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/glensc/monitoring-plugin-check_domain)

Nagios/Icinga plugin for checking a domain name expiration date

### Usage

```
$ ./check_domain.sh -d github.io
OK - Domain github.io will expire in 43 days (2014-03-08).
```

### Local changes on this fork

- Modified logic to prevent cache deletion on status code 1 and 2
- Modified defaults to turn caching on and point to ./cache directory
- Altered caching age to be more precise by using minutes rather than days.
	File caches will expire at different times throughout the day rather than all at midnight.
  This avoids aggressive rate limiting when the script is checking too often.
	e.g. hkdnr.hk rate limit 1 req / 15 sec (!)
- Add sanity check for stale cache file. Shouldn't be needed but this is a failsafe.

### Caching

This tool excels at monitoring a small number of domains, but because of whois rate limiting, it becomes infeasible to use for a large number of domains. For this to work around, there's support for caching positive lookups for defined time period. A failed lookup will cause the domain cache file to be removed so it should be as responsive as a normal check when the critical/warning threshold is reached.

An example to configure to cache positive lookups for one day:
  * `--cache-dir /var/cache/check_domain --cache-age 1`

The cache dir must exist and must be writable for user running the checks.

## Pull requests

1. Fork it.
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b fixing-blah`).
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Fixed blah'`).
4. Run `./test.sh domain.tld` to test the domain
5. Add the example domain name to [domains](domains) for CI to test them, commit it
6. Push to the branch (`git push origin fixing-blah`).
7. Create a new pull request.

Do not update changelog or attempt to change version.


## Installing whois

This plugin uses the "whois" command. It is usually installed by default, but if not, you can get it via your favourite package manager.

Debian/Ubuntu: 
```
# apt-get install whois
```

RHEL/CentOS:
```
# yum install whois
```


## Directory Listings

  * [Nagios Exchange](http://exchange.nagios.org/directory/Plugins/Internet-Domains-and-WHOIS/check_domain/details)
